# CoPower: Greening Online Investment

CoPower was founded in 2013 by Raphael Bouskila (President) and David Berliner (CEO). The company's signature product is a Green Impact Bond with a 5 year duration that returns 4% annually to the investor. Bonds refer to debt instrument securities that provide loan capital to the issuer on the condition that they pay the principal loan back with interest over a specified period of time to the purchasers of those bonds; specifically, Green Impact Bonds refer to securities for which the loans are made to companies involved in clean energy projects. Impact investing refers to investing in companies and projects that are designed to have a positive social or environmental effect in a domain that the investor cares about. This differs from responsible investing, which pertains more to divestment from sectors that may be considered harmful by some investors (eg. tobacco, liquor, fossil fuels, and weapons manufacturers).

According to a Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) brief made on the occasion of RBC's initial investment of $150,000 in CoPower in 2015, CoPower was founded with the intention of capitalizing on the follwowing 3 converging market trends: 1) a transition to clean energy sources as efficiency and storage capabilities for these sources improve, making a reduced dependence on centralized, fossil-fuel burning utilities a viable, competitive market alternative; 2) increased adoption and consumer comfort with online investing platforms, which has introduced new investor segments to the market; and 3) a growing demand for impact investments in which investors value social and environmental considerations equally with financial returns. In short, CoPower connects clean energy projects, investment in which was once reserved for large institutional investors, to retail and unaccredited investors in digital capital markets. 

Although CoPower is now a wholly owned subsidary of Vancity Community Investment Bank (VCIB) following an acquisition on January 1, 2020, it was first funded through a series of seed offerings beginning in late 2013. By 2015, CoPower received $50,000 from debt financing and $850,000 from a seed round led by RBC. By 2016, their venture round offering netted the company an additional $3,000,000 from 3 foundations. An additional venture round in 2017, added an additional $2,000,000 to CoPower's treasury. The total for these investment rounds provided $5,900,000 of funding for CoPower. Through these funding rounds, CoPower was able to acquire assets that allowed them to secure their bond offerings to their consutomers. Now CoPower is a subsidiary of VCIB, and has access to additional financial resources based on the financial resources of its parent company. 

The results of CoPower's fixed income security issues to date are nearly $20,000,000 in lending to various clean energy projects across Canada, which include the following projects: Condo LED Retrofits in Alberta, British Columbia, and Ontario, which pay off their loans from the money saved on their utility costs each month; Ontario Solar, which has provided nearly $3,500,000 to four solar projects across Ontario; and GeoTility, which financing geoexchange systems for nearly 700 residents in Kelowna.

CoPower earns revenues from the projects they select for their Green Bonds by charging an underwriting or arrangement fee to the borrowing company that receives the debt financing. CoPower also operates at the project level through a subsidiary, CoPower Finance, that actually issues the Bonds themselves. CoPower charges a management fee to this subsidiary that is based on the difference between the revenues from interest payments on the loans and the amount that is owed to holders of the bonds based on the specifics of the bonds they hold. They claim that these fees allow them to cover their administrative fees, which include "sourcing projects, structure . . . green investment products and maintaining . . . [their] online platform."

CoPower uses an online platform to address an important contemporary intersection that is happening between social consciousness and finance. The company is responding to growing demand from a growing number of investors who are passionate about climate and social justice and who want to see that their investments are having a positive impact on their world. This alignment of ethical values with finance comes at a time when Generation X and Millenials are reaching an age at which they they have enough equity to invest in markets. The average of both these generations are generally more cognizant of environmental issues than the average of their parent's generations. More than this, these generational demographics contain a large subset of socially and envrionmentally responsible individuals who are seeking innovative ways to use their wealth to support a future in which they believe. 

It is alleged that 82% of Canadians are interested in socially responsible investments while 89% of green infrastructure projects are made by institutional investors. CoPower is addressing the shift in market consicousness and providing a product that caters to the particular interests of these demographics. It should be noted that CoPower's current issue of 5 year, 4% annual Green Impact Bonds is sold out, demonstrating significant demand. 

Historically, debt instruments of the kind CoPower offers were only available to accredited and large institutional investors in the Over the Counter Market (OTC), meaning that the average retail investor had, effectively, no means by which to invest in specific projects that aligned with beliefs. CoPower is what is known as an Exempt Market Dealer (EMD), meaning that they are licensed by the Ontario Securities Commission to distribute bonds to unaccredited, retail investors. This status is what allows them to fill the market niche they do and provide debt instruments to the average socially conscious investor. CoPower requires a minimum $10,000 investment, and then sells their bonds in $1000 increments thereafter. While this is still a substantial sum, it is accessible by many investment age individuals.

Indeed, this is precisely the competitive advantage that is currently held by CoPower, at least in the Canadian market: there are very few companies offering Green Bonds, and even fewer who are able to reach retail, unaccredited investors. In Canada, SolarShare is another group that offers Green Impact Bonds, but their offerings are more limited than CoPower's. SolarShare offers bonds of 5 and 15 years, netting 5% and 6% respectively. The projects that they invest in, however, are limited to solar energy projects, largely in Ontario. What makes CoPower different is that although their bonds are lower yield, they have an online platform and allow investors to purchase their bonds entirely online. This allows them to reach a broader segment of the market. CoPower's bonds are also composed of bundles of multiple projects designed to mitigate default risk by diversifying their offerings, which makes the security of the bonds themselves less dependent on a single sector within the constellation of green industries.

A number of metrics are visible that suggest these projects have been successful thus far in their endeavours. First, the fact that their bonds are sold out is notable and demonstrates that there is clearly sufficient demand for their product. Next, CoPower's funding rounds netted them substantial capital, allowing them to carry out their business model successfully, which further resulted in their acquisition by the investment subsidiary of a major Canadian credit union (VCIB). Finally, they have invested nearly $20,000,000 in various energy projects with no reports of default from either CoPower or any of the companies to which they've loaned money. This last fact demonstrates that they have clearly done their due diligence to ensure that they are sustainably investing in projects based on an effective and well defined model. 

CoPower operates in the Capital Markets FinTech domain. According to the Boston Consulting Group, FinTech refers to firms using "innoative technology at scale to either enable or compete with other financial institutions." About two and half decades ago, we saw the advent of online banking and the transition of stock exchanges to electronic platforms. These were major transformative changes within the domain. Over the past decade, there has been an expansion of this widespread transformation of capital markets into digital spaces. A great deal of this has been fueled by companies responding to the post-financial-crisis economy, and providing solutions that have emerged as result of that experience. Part of this transformation has included a commitment to ease of access to financial markets and resources, and to a simplification of interfaces to improve consumer experiences. The adoption curve has also been rising steadily, as more and more consumers feel comfortable conducting their business, banking, and investing online.  

Within Capital Markets, green bonds have experienced enormous growth over the last decade. First issued in 2007 as a joint venture by the European Investment Bank and the World Bank s of 2012, green bond issues were only $2.6 Billion; in 2016, there was $32.6 Billion issued; by 2017 and 2018 there were $161 Billion and $167 Billion issued respectively; finally, projections for 2019 placed the number for that year at ~$250 Billion.

A major trend in capital markets has been the automation of data and information gathering and analysis. Within this domain, there a number of companies, such as TradeLab (India), 9fin (UK), Overbond (Canada), High Castle (UK), Nivaura (UK), and PrimaryBid (UK), that offer services ranging from data extraction and organization for analysis to automating investment deal flows and creating secure share registries, from automating the issuance, administration, and the life-cycle of financial instruments to connecting retail investors to live, public market offerings where they can receive real-time notifications of new transactions. 

In fact, there are innumerable companies offering strategies to make sense of capital markets and to discover investment opportunities. CoPower exists in a relatively unique position within the capital markets domain, as the particular niche of Green Impact Bonds for retail investors, though growing quickly, is still nascent and largely uninhabitted by large institutional players.

Although it may be complicated by the fact that CoPower is now a subsidiary of VCIB, a growth strategy for CoPower would be to partner with other global providers of Green Impact Bonds to create an online secondary market. The benefits of the distributed ledger of the blockchain may be employed to facilitate the security of such an exchange. Although there are massive regulatory obstacles to overcome for such a project, to move toward the creation of an exchange for such bonds would go a long way to establishing Green Impact Investing as a mainstream investment option that supports the clear desire of retail consumers to simultaneously build equity while positively impacting their society, environment, and world. The negotiability and liquidity that such an exchange, or at least that a robust and accessible OTC market could create would also increase the viability and profitability of such bonds for institutional players. The overall benefit of acceleration in this market would be to direct increasingly large amounts of investment dollars to green projects; at a time when climate change and other environmental issues are at the forefront of the public imagination, this could be both incredibly lucrative and exceptionally beneficial to the environment itself: to wed sound investment strategy with environmental goals is likely amongst the best market solutions available in our time. 

If such an exchange or robust OTC network could be created, then it would be possible to employ many of the technologies that are already extant within the capital markets domain, as listed above, to support the discovery of investment opporutnities amongst Green Impact Bonds, and also to track data to determine the efficacy of various investments over time in order to continue to tailor and better structure future issuances to maximize both impact and profitability. In addition to this, it is likely that establishing such a framework would allow for much larger issues of bonds, which would in turn create sufficient capital to afford ratings from Moody's, which would go a long way in establishing the legitimacy of such investments for more mainstream investors. 

With respect to CoPower and their offerings, a more general corrolary of these developments outside of capital markets is that consumers have also experienced an explosion in their exposure to news and information sources, which has in turn resulted in their taking increasingly impassioned positions on social issues, and which has also allowed them to connect with others who share their beliefs. As awareness has grown due, in part, to this growth in exposure to information, the demand for actionable opportunities has grown as well, which may account for the high demand for impact securities. 

CoPower uses a number of specialized technologies. These include PVSyst, which is a software designed to amalgamate data from photovoltaic systems and to compile this data into a the format of a full report. This data is then compared against the data provided by the utilities companies associated with the specific projects in which CoPower has invested. Because CoPower offers securities that are governed by a number of legal and regulatory requirements, CoPower works with its partner bank, RBC, and Payments Canada to integrate e-signatures and authorizations that enable off-line transactions to be made so that none of the high-value transactions are hosted on CoPower's website. CoPower also uses bank-level scurity measures to protect investor's sensitive data. To do this, they use 128-bit SSL certificates to encrypt information transmitted between investor's browswers and CoPower's web servers. In addition, CoPower ensures that their potential investor's connection to CoPower's website is encrypted and authenticated with TLS 1.2, which is "a modern transmission security scheme." 

According to CoPower, their documents and data are stored "on best in class cloud services with all data being stored as encrypted/protect, even at rest." They made the decision to use this technology because the security and monitoring of these cloud services are considered to be more secure than local computers monitored by the operating company. They also use IP address-based session hijacking prevention, captcha forms, just-in-time decryption and other web security best practices. They also use 2FA two-factor authentication forms. 

Despite all these measures to offer a secure online platform, the company still conducts Know Your Client phone calls to ensure they are meeting their regulatory responsabilities. 

Support for green technology continues to grow, and with the proliferation of products like the ones CoPower offers, it is likely that the potential for such products is exponential once a number of key platforms are established to support further growth. These might include the establishment of an online Green Exchange that would provide a secondary market for Green Impact Bonds and others like them to encourage trading. At the moment, the negotiability of Green Bonds is low, and there is almost no secondary market for such issues. The ability to trade in such bonds, and for valuations to move with interest rates, as they do for the traditional bond markets, would open investment in green debt instruments to many of the technological innovations are that revolutionizing existing fixed income security markets. With advanced valuation and analysis products such as those being offered by, for example, fellow Canadian FinTech company Overbond, it is likely that Green Impact Bonds could become a lucrative security that could also attract more conservative investors for whom investment security and other strategic opportunities still outweigh the importance of social issues. In a similar sense, the fact that CoPower's bonds are unrated by Moody's, the standard bond rating organization, because of the costs associated with doing so also limits the viability of such securities to less socially conscious investors. Were CoPower able to attain a rating from such an institution, it would likely go a long way in marketing their Green Impact Bonds to investors beyond the socially conscious subset they already reach. 


## Works Cited 

https://copower.me/en/

https://blog.copower.me/news/whats-link-between-new-tech-and-new-finance/

https://www.newswire.ca/news-releases/copower-issues-first-green-bond-for-canadian-investors-567194981.html

https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/copower

http://www.montrealintechnology.com/clean-energy-platform-copower-closes-2-million-round/

https://assets.ey.com/content/dam/ey-sites/ey-com/en_gl/topics/emeia-financial-services/ey-capital-markets-innovation-and-the-fintech-landscape.pdf

https://technation.io/fintech-investor-index/#capital-markets

https://www.cbinsights.com/research/capital-markets-tech-market-map-fintech/?utm_source=CB+Insights+Newsletter&utm_campaign=d77d299461-WedNL_6_7_2017&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_9dc0513989-d77d299461-87334349

https://capital-market.apacciooutlook.com/vendors/top-capital-market-tech-solution-companies.html

https://static1.squarespace.com/static/598b47ff6a49631e85d75e53/t/5bf7041a4fa51a471a49377c/1542915099074/CoPower+%26+SolarShare_FINAL_EN_0_acc.pdf

http://www.rbc.com/community-sustainability/rbc-social-finance-initiative/copower.html

https://www.vancity.com/AboutVancity/News/MediaReleases/CoPower_Nov_7_2019/

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/g/green-bond.asp

https://www.pvsyst.com/